Add release notes for NRDOT Host Monitoring 1.17.0 (#24443)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/release-notes/nrdot-release-notes/nrdot-host-2026-06-15.mdx

---
subject: NRDOT
category: Host Monitoring
title: NRDOT Host Monitoring v1.17.0
releaseDate: '2026-06-15'
version: 1.17.0
metaDescription: Release notes for NRDOT Host Monitoring use case version 1.17.0
downloadLink: https://github.com/newrelic/nrdot-collector-releases/releases/tag/1.17.0
features: ["Host use case verified to work with `nrdot-collector:1.17.0`","Replaced `hostmetrics` with `host_metrics`, `resourcedetection` with `resource_detection` and `metricstransform` with `metrics_transform` due to deprecations."]
bugs: []
security: []
---
### Features
* Host use case verified to work with `nrdot-collector:1.17.0`

> * Replaced `hostmetrics` with `host_metrics`, `resourcedetection` with `resource_detection` and `metricstransform` with `metrics_transform` due to deprecations.<br />The `hostmetricsreceiver`, `resourcedetectionprocessor` and `metricstransformprocessor` have changed their `metadata.yaml::type` identifiers to use snake_case, which change how they are referenced in the config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Validates that the host use case works correctly with `nrdot-collector:1.17.0`.
* Renames the following component type identifiers to `snake_case` to resolve upstream deprecations. The `hostmetricsreceiver`, `resourcedetectionprocessor`, and `metricstransformprocessor` components now use these updated names for their `metadata.yaml` fields:
  * `hostmetrics` to `host_metrics`
  * `resourcedetection` to `resource_detection`
  * `metricstransform` to `metrics_transform`
```

---
subject: NRDOT
category: Host Monitoring
title: NRDOT Host Monitoring v1.17.0
releaseDate: '2026-06-15'
version: 1.17.0
metaDescription: Release notes for NRDOT Host Monitoring use case version 1.17.0
downloadLink: https://github.com/newrelic/nrdot-collector-releases/releases/tag/1.17.0
features: ["Host use case verified to work with `nrdot-collector:1.17.0`","Replaced `hostmetrics` with `host_metrics`, `resourcedetection` with `resource_detection` and `metricstransform` with `metrics_transform` due to deprecations."]
bugs: []
security: []
---
### Features
* Validates that the host use case works correctly with `nrdot-collector:1.17.0`.
* Renames the following component type identifiers to `snake_case` to resolve upstream deprecations. The `hostmetricsreceiver`, `resourcedetectionprocessor`, and `metricstransformprocessor` components now use these updated names for their `metadata.yaml` fields:
  * `hostmetrics` to `host_metrics`
  * `resourcedetection` to `resource_detection`

>   * `metricstransform` to `metrics_transform`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Replaced `hostmetrics` with `host_metrics`, `resourcedetection` with `resource_detection`, and `metricstransform` with `metrics_transform` due to deprecations. 
  The `hostmetricsreceiver`, `resourcedetectionprocessor`, and `metricstransformprocessor` changed their `metadata.yaml :: type` identifiers to use `snake_case`, which changed how they are referenced in the configuration.
```
